CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to contribute to Ignition

This document contains some tips on how to collaborate in this project.

## Filing an issue

If you find a bug or want to propose a new feature, please [open an issue](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition/issues/new). Pull requests are welcome, but we recommend you discuss it in an issue first, especially for big changes. This will increase the odds that we can accept your PR.

## Project Structure

This repository is a monorepo handled with `npm` workspaces.

There are five packages:

- [**core**](./packages/core/README.md) - containing the ignition library for orchestrating deployments
- [**hardhat-plugin**](./packages/hardhat-plugin/README.md) - containing the Hardhat plugin wrapper for the core library
- [**hardhat-plugin-ethers**](./packages/hardhat-plugin-ethers/README.md) - containing the Hardhat plugin extension to add ethers support to hardhat-plugin
- [**hardhat-plugin-viem**](./packages/hardhat-plugin-viem/README.md) - containing the Hardhat plugin extension to add viem support to hardhat-plugin
- [**ui**](./packages/ui/README.md) - containing the UI for the visualize report

## Setup

Ignition is a `typescript` project managed by `npm`.

To install the dependencies, run `npm` in the project root:

```shell
npm install
```

## Building

The packages are written in `typescript` and so require a build step, to build:

```shell
npm run build
```

The **Hardhat** plugin depends on **core**, while developing you may want to run a continuous build with `watch`:

```shell
npm run watch
```

## Testing

The test suite is written in `mocha`, to run:

```shell
npm run test
```

## Linting

Formatting is enforced with `prettier` and code rules with `eslint`, to run both:

```shell
npm run lint
```

## Clean

If typescript or testing gets into a weird state, `clean` will remove ephemeral folders (i.e. `./dist`, `./coverage` etc) and clear the typescript build info cache, allowing you to start from a clean slate:

```shell
npm run clean
```

## Branching

We work on two branches, [main](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition/tree/main) and [development](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition/tree/development).

The development branch is the default branch. It's where we merge all pull requests and is the branch that all contributing PRs should be based on.

The main branch is meant to be kept in sync with the latest released version of each package. It's where we publish new releases from, and should only be merged into when a new release is being made.

### Documentation

Ignition's documentation lives inside the [main Hardhat repo](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat/tree/main). If your change requires a documentation change, please submit a separate PR to the Hardhat repo, following their contributing guidelines, and link to it from your PR.

If you are working purely on the documentation, not as a result of a technical change, you should submit a PR to the Hardhat repo directly.

## Publish

To publish ignition:

1. git fetch, Checkout out `development`, then ensure your branch is up to date `git pull --ff-only`
2. Perform a clean install and build (will lose all uncommitted changes) git clean -fdx ., npm install, npm run build
3. Run a full check, stopping on failure: `npm run fullcheck`
4. Confirm the commits represent the features for the release
5. Create a release branch `git checkout -b release/yyyy-mm-dd`
6. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/core`.
7. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/hardhat-plugin`.
8. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/hardhat-plugin-ethers`.
9. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/hardhat-plugin-viem`.
10. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/ui`.
11. Update the package versions based on semver: `npm version --no-git-tag-version --workspaces patch #minor #major`
12. Update the version of dependencies:

- cores version in hardhat-ui deps
- cores and uis versions in hardhat-ignition devDeps and peerDeps
- examples version of hardhat-ignition

13. Commit the version update `git commit`:

```
chore: bump version to vX.X.X

Update the packages versions and changelogs for the `X.X.X -
yyyy-mm-dd` release.
```

14. Push the release branch and open a pull request on `main`, the PR description should match the changelogs
15. On a successful check, `rebase merge` the release branch into `main`
16. Switch to main branch and pull the latest changes
17. Git tag the version, `g tag -a v0.x.x -m "v0.x.x"` and push the tag `git push --follow-tags`
18. Publish `@nomicfoundation/ignition-core`, `@nomicfoundation/ignition-ui`, `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition` and `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition-viem` : `npm publish -w @nomicfoundation/ignition-core -w @nomicfoundation/ignition-ui -w @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition -w @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition-ethers -w @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition-viem`
19. Create a release on github off of the pushed tag

## Manual testing

> To knock off the rough edges

### Tests

---

#### **Try and deploy a module that doesn't exist**

---

##### <u>_Arrange_</u>

Setup ignition in a new hardhat project based on the getting started guide.

##### <u>_Act_</u>

Run a deploy with a module that doesn't exist

##### <u>_Assert_</u>

Check that a sensible error message is displayed

---

#### **Try and run a module with a validation error**

---

##### <u>_Arrange_</u>

Setup ignition in a new hardhat project based on the getting started guide.

Tweak the module so that it has a problem that will be caught by validation (ADD_MORE_DETAILS_HERE).

##### <u>_Act_</u>

Run a deploy with a invalid module

##### <u>_Assert_</u>

Check that a sensible error message is displayed

---

#### **Deploy to Sepolia testnet**

---

##### <u>_Arrange_</u>

Ensure you have an infura/alchemy RPC endpoint set up for Sepolia as well as an ETH address with Sepolia ETH that you don't mind pasting the privkey in plaintext for. I used metamask

Setup the network settings in the `hardhat.config.js` of the example you want to test

##### <u>_Act_</u>

Run a deploy/test from the example directory you set up

##### <u>_Assert_</u>

Check that deployment was successful, or results match expected (for instance, on-hold for multisig)

Commit message:

chore: update publishing to include hiring imprint
Add an imprint on the end of any release message, and show a template in the
publishing instructions in `./CONTRIBUTING.md`.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to contribute to Ignition

This document contains some tips on how to collaborate in this project.

## Filing an issue

If you find a bug or want to propose a new feature, please [open an issue](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition/issues/new). Pull requests are welcome, but we recommend you discuss it in an issue first, especially for big changes. This will increase the odds that we can accept your PR.

## Project Structure

This repository is a monorepo handled with `npm` workspaces.

There are five packages:

- [**core**](./packages/core/README.md) - containing the ignition library for orchestrating deployments
- [**hardhat-plugin**](./packages/hardhat-plugin/README.md) - containing the Hardhat plugin wrapper for the core library
- [**hardhat-plugin-ethers**](./packages/hardhat-plugin-ethers/README.md) - containing the Hardhat plugin extension to add ethers support to hardhat-plugin
- [**hardhat-plugin-viem**](./packages/hardhat-plugin-viem/README.md) - containing the Hardhat plugin extension to add viem support to hardhat-plugin
- [**ui**](./packages/ui/README.md) - containing the UI for the visualize report

## Setup

Ignition is a `typescript` project managed by `npm`.

To install the dependencies, run `npm` in the project root:

```shell
npm install
```

## Building

The packages are written in `typescript` and so require a build step, to build:

```shell
npm run build
```

The **Hardhat** plugin depends on **core**, while developing you may want to run a continuous build with `watch`:

```shell
npm run watch
```

## Testing

The test suite is written in `mocha`, to run:

```shell
npm run test
```

## Linting

Formatting is enforced with `prettier` and code rules with `eslint`, to run both:

```shell
npm run lint
```

## Clean

If typescript or testing gets into a weird state, `clean` will remove ephemeral folders (i.e. `./dist`, `./coverage` etc) and clear the typescript build info cache, allowing you to start from a clean slate:

```shell
npm run clean
```

## Branching

We work on two branches, [main](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition/tree/main) and [development](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition/tree/development).

The development branch is the default branch. It's where we merge all pull requests and is the branch that all contributing PRs should be based on.

The main branch is meant to be kept in sync with the latest released version of each package. It's where we publish new releases from, and should only be merged into when a new release is being made.

### Documentation

Ignition's documentation lives inside the [main Hardhat repo](https://github.com/nomicfoundation/hardhat/tree/main). If your change requires a documentation change, please submit a separate PR to the Hardhat repo, following their contributing guidelines, and link to it from your PR.

If you are working purely on the documentation, not as a result of a technical change, you should submit a PR to the Hardhat repo directly.

## Publish

To publish ignition:

1. git fetch, Checkout out `development`, then ensure your branch is up to date `git pull --ff-only`
2. Perform a clean install and build (will lose all uncommitted changes) git clean -fdx ., npm install, npm run build
3. Run a full check, stopping on failure: `npm run fullcheck`
4. Confirm the commits represent the features for the release
5. Create a release branch `git checkout -b release/yyyy-mm-dd`
6. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/core`.
7. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/hardhat-plugin`.
8. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/hardhat-plugin-ethers`.
9. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/hardhat-plugin-viem`.
10. Update the `CHANGELOG.md` under `./packages/ui`.
11. Update the package versions based on semver: `npm version --no-git-tag-version --workspaces patch #minor #major`
12. Update the version of dependencies:

- cores version in hardhat-ui deps
- cores and uis versions in hardhat-ignition devDeps and peerDeps
- examples version of hardhat-ignition

13. Commit the version update `git commit`:

```
chore: bump version to vX.X.X

Update the packages versions and changelogs for the `X.X.X -
yyyy-mm-dd` release.
```

14. Push the release branch and open a pull request on `main`, the PR description should match the changelogs
15. On a successful check, `rebase merge` the release branch into `main`
16. Switch to main branch and pull the latest changes
17. Git tag the version, `g tag -a v0.x.x -m "v0.x.x"` and push the tag `git push --follow-tags`
18. Publish `@nomicfoundation/ignition-core`, `@nomicfoundation/ignition-ui`, `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition` and `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition-viem` : `npm publish -w @nomicfoundation/ignition-core -w @nomicfoundation/ignition-ui -w @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition -w @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition-ethers -w @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition-viem`
19. Create a release on github off of the pushed tag, the release notes should match the changelogs followed by a hiring entry:

```markdown
---
> 💡 **The Nomic Foundation is hiring! Check [our open positions](https://www.nomic.foundation/jobs).**
---
```

## Manual testing

> To knock off the rough edges

### Tests

---

#### **Try and deploy a module that doesn't exist**

---

##### <u>_Arrange_</u>

Setup ignition in a new hardhat project based on the getting started guide.

##### <u>_Act_</u>

Run a deploy with a module that doesn't exist

##### <u>_Assert_</u>

Check that a sensible error message is displayed

---

#### **Try and run a module with a validation error**

---

##### <u>_Arrange_</u>

Setup ignition in a new hardhat project based on the getting started guide.

Tweak the module so that it has a problem that will be caught by validation (ADD_MORE_DETAILS_HERE).

##### <u>_Act_</u>

Run a deploy with a invalid module

##### <u>_Assert_</u>

Check that a sensible error message is displayed

---

#### **Deploy to Sepolia testnet**

---

##### <u>_Arrange_</u>

Ensure you have an infura/alchemy RPC endpoint set up for Sepolia as well as an ETH address with Sepolia ETH that you don't mind pasting the privkey in plaintext for. I used metamask

Setup the network settings in the `hardhat.config.js` of the example you want to test

##### <u>_Act_</u>

Run a deploy/test from the example directory you set up

##### <u>_Assert_</u>

Check that deployment was successful, or results match expected (for instance, on-hold for multisig)
